# Course_Notifier
Python script used to monitor course enrollment and notify user of openings. 

I made this script out of necessity in July 2017. At that time i had just resolved to switch my major from chemical engineering to computer science. But since I had done this so late I was not enrolled in any of the CS classes that I shoudl have been taking that fall. The university has a notification system in place that allows students who are waiting for a class to be notified of openings, but this did not work for me. These notifications were only sent once, and I would often miss them. What's more, the wait list for many of the classes I needed was too long and I would never have been notified in time. I thought about just leaving a tab open on my desktop to watch enrollment numbers live, but this was unfeasible for a variety of reasons. So instead, I wrote this script to monitor the enrollment website for me. It would then notify me by email until either I enrolled in the class or someone else did and the class became full again. Using this script I was able to get into every single class that I wanted for fall and spring of that school year. As a result, I am able to graduate on time as if I had never switched majors at all.

The design of this program is pretty simple. It starts by prompting the user with text inputs for the 4 fields that are needed to search for a course on the university website. It then uses a headless webbrowser called PhantomJs to and Selenium Webdriver API to navigate to the university website and enter the information that the user input. From there it uses Beautiful Soup 4 to extract the relevant text from the webpage and displays them to the user. At this point the user can decide if they would like to continue monitoring this course or not. If they input 'y' then the program will continue to monitor the webpage with the input course information, refreshing every 5 minutes until the number of students enrolled becomes less than the enrollment limit for the course. Once this comparison succeeds, it will use SMTP and MIME to send emails notifying the user until the comparison fails again.

There are many things wrong with how this program was implemented and that I have since learned how to do better. There is no error checking in the inputs, there is no way to deactivate the script remotely and the script could not run unless my computer was on. If I had to do it again there's a lot I would do differently, but I haven't needed it since last year and it worked for what I needed at the time.  
